Genome annotation improvement analysing the gene KaKs ratio: A practical case with the genome of Acinetobacter baumannii

The current availability of complete genome sequences has allowed numerous comparative studies to be carried out to better understand the genome of a species. 
These studies are highly dependent on the quality of the used genome assemblies, so sequence errors cause poor gene prediction (1). For this reason, new tools 
and methods have emerged to search for new coding regions and thus be able to complete the genome annotation. An example of this is AnaABlast, developed by our
group, an algorithm that discovers small and complex hidden coding sequences (2). We have already shown that the Nonsynonymous / Synonymous Substitution ratio 
(KaKs ratio) could effectively measure evolutionary pressure in other bacteria such as Helicobacter pylori (3). In this work, we propose using AnABlast and the
KaKs ratio to detect regions poorly annotated by current gene finders and discover new possible protein-coding regions. For this study, we use Acinetobacter baumannii, 
an opportunistic bacterium that causes nosocomial infections with high mortality and morbidity (4), because it presents many sequenced strains allowing large-scale
evolutionary analysis. We carried out a proof of concept with the ATCC 17978 strain, used as a reference of this species, to validate this approach. It presents two 
genome versions sequenced with different NGS tools, the most current version being the most reliable. We performed a comparative analysis between both versions, and
we identified more than 200 genes that showed a wrong annotation in the first genome version of the ATCC 17978 strain. After the estimation of modifications, the 
evolutionary selection for each gene has been calculated using almost 2200 strains. We found that the KaKs ratio improved mostly when the most current version gene 
is used as a reference. Furthermore, we discovered some regions which could be new coding genes using our gene predictor. It is a preliminary result, so we must implement
an even more detailed comparative analysis. All these preliminary results propose that this type of analysis could be helpful to validate and correct genetic predictions.
